#### **Towards Intelligent Traffic Signaling in Dhaka City Based on Vehicle Detection and Congestion Optimization**

`Intelligent Traffic Signaling` `Vehicle Detection` `Multi-Objective Optimization` `Embedded Systems` <br>
_Jun 2023 - Jun 2024_

Undergraduate thesis project under the supervision of [Dr. A.B.M. Alim Al Islam (BUET)](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=K-AIPzQAAAAJ&hl=en). My co-contributor [Hasan Masum](https://hmasum52.github.io/) and I designed a system architecture for an intelligent traffic signaling system suited for the non-lane based, heterogeneous traffic scenario in Dhaka city. The system uses real-time traffic video feed to detect vehicles and optimizes the signal cycle accordingly. In brief, traffic data is collected as video feed from IP Cameras. The selected object detection model deployed in the Raspberry Pi counts the vehicles at the intersection, which are then used to optimize the signal cycle using a multi-objective optimization algorithm. We physically implemented the proposed system architecture in an ensemble of IP Cameras and a Raspberry Pi to assess the feasibility of the system. The system was tested at a nearby intersection. We have worked on real-time video processing, object detection in low-resource environments, and multi-objective optimization algorithms. My personal contributions to the project include the dataset preparation to train the model, the evaluation and selection of the object detection model, the overall integration of the cyber-physical system, and the testing and evaluation of the system at the intersection. The proposed architecture shows promise as a solution to the traffic signaling issue in Dhaka city.
